+++
title = 'Big Red Crochet on A Heart String'
date = 2025-02-20T12:43:23+08:00
draft = false
+++

lazers. lazers everywhere. on the ground. shooting up. green ones. invisible ones. crasks on the road and the homeless people. have you ever talked to them? do you even know why they are in the situation that they are in right now? if you ask me, i say theyu are the most secretive people on earth, more than donald trump, or oil kings in saudi arabia. the point is, we need to get fomr point a to point b. but why? becuase in a freezing cold winter night, walking is the thing to do. you see. the world is black and white. the colder it is, the darker it gets. the winds could blow a skin off my face, which it in fact did. the sun could goes the opposite direction. but its not getting any warmer. my world isnt. my world isnt black and white. my world is of other colors. in night time, the string, a red string pulling my heart to places. dragging me, across the other end of globe. is that what many refer to as the purpose? when i was in primary school, i was too afraid to sleep alone, not even during summer. my eyes were wide open, when the world goes dark in the absence of light, where the god of solar seystem himself would stop protecting me. the string, it could open the door of my bedroom. my mom closed it again. "can i have the door open just a crack?" i asked my dad. "why? does darkness help you to sleep?" because the heart string is brittler than full moon, tonight, we go to a birth day party. in a quiet of awkward everyone spoke up. i could see their souls, gasping for air. the cake its eyes that it deserve, everyones eyes. the cake knows that today is the day - he is to be dissected, heart to be consumed by the hungry beautiful human of all color. in an ecstacy of loudness, people, boyus and girls, murder the canle light. on the counter, he asks, in his broken english, "anyone, icecream? my treat!" no one responded. "Ice cream on me, anyone?" he asked again, heart to heart, she, a girl, in a black down jacket, shivers in the coldness of the most desolate land on earth. my heart string pulls again, far far away, in a vaccuum of oxygen.
